So the c function is another function that
can be used to create vectors of objects,
and you can think of c as standing for
concatenate because it can be used to
kind of concatenate things together.
So, for example, I can create an object
called x by concatenating 0.5 and 0.6 and
that will give me a numeric vector of
lenght 2 for the first element is .5 and
the second element is .6.
In the second example here, I've got
a logical vector, we are concatenating
through true and false, so shorthand for
true and false, you can use t and
f, capital T and capital F, so
these 2 lines give you the same objectum,
you can create a character vector by
concatenating a bunch of characters.
You can create integer vector by creating
a sequence with colon operator, and
you can also create a vector of complex
numbers where the i is a special symbol,
which indicates the imaginary
part of the complex number.
So using the vector function
you can also create,
a vector of a certain type and
a certain length.
So here, I'm going to create
a numeric vector of length 10.
And by default it will initialize
the vector, with a default value for
numeric vectors the default value is zero.
So what happens if you take
a vect you create a vector and
you mix two different types of objects and
so the general it that is that r.
Will kind of create the least common
denominator vector so, will not give you
an error but what will happen is that
it will coerce the vector to be the,
the class that's kind of
the least common denominator.
So here, in the first example, I've got
in trouble concatenating number 1.7 and
letter a, so clearly these are not in
the same class one is numeric, and
the other is character.
So the least common denominator here,
is going to be character.
And so we're, so what you're going to
get is that y is going to be
a character vector, where the first
element is going to be the string 1.7 and
the second element's going to be the, the
letter A so in the second example here,
I've got concatenating true, which is
a logical, and a two, which is numeric.
And so what's going to happen here is that
you're going to get a numeric vector and
the true is going to be
converted into a number.
And so how's that happen, so and
the, and by the convention in R
true is represented as the number one and
false is represented as the number zero.
And so what you're going to get here,
is a vector 1,2.
Lastly this last example here I
am calculating the letter A, and
the logical true and so
here the least common denominator
is again going to be character.
And so the vector that you end up with is
a vector where the first element is A and
the second element is the string true,
so T R U E.
It's not going to be illogical so
you need to be a little bit aware, of the
types of coercion that can occur in our,
when you mix different types
of elements in a vector.
And because you won't get an error,
but, but
the coercion will happen
behind the scenes.
that, in the previous slide we talked
about kind of a implicit coercion that
occurs behind the scenes, but
you can explicitly coerce objects from one
class to another using functions
that usually start with the word as.
So for example, if you want to convert
something to a numeric you can use
the function called as.numeric.
If you want to convert something
into character you can use
the function as.character now if you
apply these functions, so if you apply
as.numeric to a numeric vector nothing
will happen so, here in this example I'm
starting off by creating an object called
x which is a sequence of zero to six.
So this is going to, this is an integer
sequence as you could see when I
call class on the object but
I convert it into a numeric sequence.
And so I can call as.numeric on x,
and you can see that it prints out 0,
1, through 6,
which look like an integer object but
it's actually going to be numeric or
I can convert it into a logical and so
I can say as.logical on it,
and what happens?
Well, as you can see,
the convention is that 0 is false.
And any number that's greater than zero
is going to be true so here I've got a,
when I convert to logical I get false and
then everything else is true when I call
as.character on X it takes all the numbers
and, and converts them into characters.
So now I've got the string zero,
the string one, two ect and finally when,
if I call as.complex this is fairly
straightforward because you can all it
does is says that you have a complex
number where all the imaginary components
are zero, now coercion we'll
notice always doesn't work.
And when it doesn't work you
get what are called NA values.
So non sensical coercion
will result in NAs.
So for example if I take the vector ABC.
And call as.numeric.
Well there's really no way to
convert the letters a, b, and
c to numerical variables so
what you get is a vector of NAs and
plus a warning similarly if you call
as.logical on x, you're going to get
a vector of NAs The next data type
I'm going to talk about is the list.
Now I mentioned lists a little bit
earlier in this lecture and the idea is
that they're, they're like a vector except
that every element of a list could be a,
an object of a different class and so
that makes lists very, very handy for
kind of carrying around
different types of data.
And they're very useful in R and
they become very common especially when in
conjunction with other types of functions
that we're going to learn about.
So here I'm creating a list called x
by using the list function which is a,
which can be used to construct the list.
And the first element is a numeric value,
numeric object of one.
The second element is a character,
letter a.
Third is illogical and
the fourth is a complex number.
So this is not a problem with lists and
when I autoprint the list you'll see that
it prints out a little bit differently It
doesn't print out like a vector
because every element is different.
So you can see that in the double brackets
here so the, the elements are indexed by
double brackets so
the first element is the vector 1.
The second element is a vector with A.
The third element is a vector with true
and the fourth element is a vector.
With the complex number 1 + (4i).
So lists are indexed you'll notice that
el, elements of a list will have double
brackets around them elements of other
vectors just have the single brackets, so
that's one way to separate a list
from other types of vectors